So now let's talk about SSM session manager,
which is a way for you to start a secure shell environment
on your EC2 instances and on-premises servers,
but you access it through the console,
the CLI or the session manager SDK,
and the real power of session manager is that you do not
need to get direct SSH access into your instances. Okay.
Neither using a bastion host or SSH key.
So this is different from the SSH traditional SSH,
or even the EC2 instance connect
that is in the backend using SSH. Okay.
So how does that work?
Where are EC2 instance is running the SSM agents
and is having the right permissions to be registered
with this SSM service.
And so our user is going to connect to the session manager
service with a correct IAM permission, of course.
And then the session manager will be able to execute
commands on our EC2 instance.
So it's using the same mechanism if you want,
as the run commands, the service feature. Okay.
But this time,
the session manager is used to just have a common shell
against our EC2 instance.
The cool thing is that it supports Linux, macOS and windows.
Okay. And all the connections, your instances,
and the executed commands are going to be logged.
So you can have them being sent to Amazon S3 or
CloudWatch Logs.
And the idea is that you have more control
and more security.
When someone does an SSH command into an EC2 instance,
you do not have the history of all the commands
that will run, and so less security, less compliance.
And CloudTrail can also be used to intercept
the StartSession events,
which is when session and measure is being used to start a
session onto your EC2 instance. For example, again,
for some automation, compliance and alerting.
So session manager requires IAM permissions,
and this is allowing you to control which users or groups
can access session manager and which instances,
and you can use tags to restrict access
to only specific EC2 instances.
So in this example,
this is an IAM policy that allows you
to connect to any instance,
as long as the resource type of environment is named dev.
So you also need access to SSM and write to S3 and
write to CloudWatch to allow you to send the Log there.
And optionally,
you can restrict even restrict commands that the user
can run in a session.
if you wanted to go deep down the security route.
So just for you to understand, using SSH,
well we have to open up our security group and our user with
specific IP address as a session to our instance and do
whatever he wants there, but using session manager,
we don't need any inbound rules. Okay.
You just need the instance with the SSM agents
and the right IAM role,
and then a user with a correct IAM permission
can use session manager to run commands against
our EC2 instance.
All the data of the session is going to be logged
or could be logged into Amazon S3 or CloudWatch logs.
So it's quite a cool service. I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture to do some hands-on.